A business model must be analyzed
from different perspectives
and we will go see them, but
today we will talk about scalability,
which is one of the key factors
to analyze a model and is also
a concept that is lately in
the mouth of all because the
scalability of business has
grown with the arrival
of the digital economy.
The digital world allows to be much
more scalable and this is now what they
are looking for, what a lot of people
are looking for, what investors are
looking for, those who are looking
for entrepreneurs, everyone is
looking for the scalability of a
business, right?
I will explain it to you by example.
Let's look at a business that is not
scalable, for example.
So look, let's talk about, imagine
a digital marketing agency, it's
a company usually of medium
size, let's think with 10 employees
that provides services because
of digital marketing
and let's think that this
company wants to grow.
Let's see what the scene is.
Well, it may grow, it could
grow gradually, capture more
customers, more important customers,
bill more, etc., but its
costs would always grow more
or less in a relationship
with revenue, more or
less proportionate.
Why is it?
Because it would have to hire more
employees, first it would have to
hire people who were dedicated
to capturing more accounts, to generate
business and then it would have
to hire more employees to provide
that service because the service
is very leveraged in people,
in employees.
And now I put another completely
different case, that of a super
scalable business model and
is a mobile game like the Angry
Birds, for example.
In Angry Birds, the
curve is different.
Rovio, which is the owner
of Angry Birds, managed
to brutally multiply its
sales, while the costs
were more or less flat.
Why is it?
Because once you had created the
game, you could sell it or you
can sell it to millions more people,
generating millions of dollars
in additional revenue without
incurring additional costs
or incurring very small marginal
costs.
Is it worth?
That is the key
to scalability and is the
key to Rovio's enormous
success.
As we have seen in the canvas, we
have now talked about revenue and
costs and expenses, right?
Scalability is defined
as the ability to grow
very fast, with a
growing profitability.
That is, that as you grow
bigger, your profits will
be higher.
Well, we've defined scalability
so far, which is something that
a lot of people know.
You may already know the concept,
but let's start with the really
interesting part and that is,
let's analyze what are the
factors that make a business
model scalable.
This analysis is very interesting.
Why is it?
Because after doing so, it will allow
you to create more scalable business
models, because you already know
what the real causes are.
First, in order for a business
to be very scalable, it
has to be, I always say it
has to be in a market that
allows it, it has to be in
a market large enough.
If you want to grow a lot, your market
has to be big, because otherwise
you won't be able to grow.
Big or huge, because if we
talk about the most valuable companies
in the world, because the companies
we always put as an example, such
as Facebook, for example,
the market of Facebook Ads, the
advertising market in the world is
immense, of billions of dollars
or Airbnb, the market of tourist
accommodation, you can imagine,
or of urban transport, or of
a real estate portal
that intermediates in transactions
of a lot of money.
We're talking about billions,
right?
The main criterion is that your market
is huge.
If you have a coffee shop, you do not
go to Second criterion, it is
that the proposal, your products
and services are very standardized,
that you can grow, let us put
an example, globally adapting them
as little as possible, is it?
I mean standardized.
To grow very quickly, it takes the
product, as I say, to be very
standardized, for example,
Hawkers glasses.
Well, you can sell the same glasses
in all countries around the
world, without having to make
additional investments in product
adaptation or development.
The Power MBA.
Our program, with the salvation of the
language, which is the only one, creates
the same value to a person in China,
that in Indonesia, that in Hong
Kong, that in New York or Peru, is
it worth?
That is, it is a very standardized
product and that allows us to
be very scalable.
The mobile app is also another
clear case.
And I'll give you an example of
a product that requires more
adaptation and makes it less
scalable.
Let's think about a accounting software.
The accounting software must take
into account the legal tax accounting
regulations of each country.
So if you want to grow in another
country, you have to adapt your product.
As you can see, this is not a very standardized product.
Another factor, the third factor
for a scalable business
model, are distribution channels.
This is a distinction between
the online channel and the
physical channel.
When you can grow online, your
business is much more scalable.
This is very clear.
If we compare Bars & Noble,
a book retailer with Amazon,
Amazon grew much more than
Bars & Noble, mainly because
the digital channel allows
you to grow around
the world much faster.
Instead, if your channel is physical,
you have to go establishing
new stores, hiring employees,
etc.
Another key factor to consider
is resources.
They are the key resources
to lend your business model.
In order for a business to
be highly scalable, the resources
and assets on which it is based,
that business model must
be very scalable too.
Let us look at examples.
If your service or product, if your
business model requires, is very
employee-intensive, as we have seen,
for example, before the digital marketing
agency, it is very complicated
that you are scalable, because
you will have to multiply your
number of employees if you
multiply your sales volume.
A clear example that also
disrupts the growth of
very many companies that depend
mainly on partners, directors
or employees for the provision
of the service.
Or you are dependent on large investments.
We have a hotel chain, for example.
A hotel chain, if it wants to
grow, has to invest in more hotels.
The curve we have made, the
profitability will not grow.
You will always get the same margin
in every place.
Even if it has, there will be
certain economies of scale if it has
100 hotels, because it will have
certain central services, a
certain structure that covers all
100 hotels.
And you will have a bit more profitability
than if you have one.
It is not ultra-scalable.
In contrast, if we compare the hotel
chain with Airbnb, which can
be considered a competitor, the
case of Airbnb, its resource,
the resource on which it is based
to grow, is a platform, it is
a platform that serves equally
anyone around the world.
It is a much more scalable
resource.
I will give you another example, another
comparison.
The scalability difference between
V and a proprietary
company, for example, of 10 taxis.
Uber, its key resource is the
platform and the taxi company are
the taxis, are the vehicles, the
licenses.
It is clear that Uber's key feature,
its asset, is much more scalable.
The platform, the technology that
Uber has, the app is much more
scalable.
It can grow globally without having
to make additional investments.
Instead, the taxi company every
time it wants to grow,
it has to buy a new car, get
a new license and, in addition,
when it has a new employee.
The difference is very clear.
An ultra-scalable business, for
example, a good example, Hoffman.
Hoffman allows you to get into
their app and create an album
from your photos.
They already have the resource that
is the platform, the technology,
and can grow simply by capturing more
customers without having
to incur additional costs
or investments.
If we compare it with the competitor
service, it would be a photography
store that offers you the same,
that is, that from the photographs
you create an album, because
it is clear that the resources
on which Hoffman's business
model is based are much more
scalable than its traditional
competitor.
Well, as we have seen, scalability
is one of the key or most
important features of a business
model, something we have to
take into account, because highly
scalable are very valuable,
everyone is looking for scalable
and we have analyzed it from
the perspective of the business
model canvas and we have identified
that in addition to revenue
and costs, which is the obvious,
there are a number of factors
that make a business, a business
model more scalable, that your
market is very large, that your
proposal is very standardized,
that online sales, that your
distribution channel allows
you to grow very quickly
and finally, that you are supporting
in key resources that are
scalable, that you do
not have to permanently
make additional investments.